Hail is common during severe thunderstorms. It may not last long, but it can pack a real punch. Hail can dent vehicles, 
shatter windows and destroy roofs, which can lead to water damage in your home.

You can minimize hail damage with these helpful tips.

Before the hail hits
Clear your eavestroughs of debris to minimize ice dams or water damage.
Inspect your roof for damage and repair any problem areas.
Remove weak branches or trees in close proximity to your home.
Store patio furniture and outdoor accessories in an enclosed space.
Move vehicles into a garage or use a hail protector cover to avoid costly repairs.
Are you renovating your home? Do you live in an area that’s prone to hail? Consider choosing impact-resistant
 shingles and exterior coverings that are rated to withstand hail. You can also install permanent or temporary storm 
 shutter systems to protect windows and other glass surfaces, such as skylights and sliding doors.

During the storm
Avoid finding shelter under trees or in areas like culverts that can suddenly fill with water.
Stay indoors and away from windows, glass doors and skylights.
Close drapes or blinds to protect yourself from broken glass and flying debris.
Keep pets indoors and provide shelter for farm animals.
If you’re driving…

Pull into a gas station or other covered structure.
Pull over and angle your vehicle so that hail hits the reinforced windshield rather than side and back windows.
Avoid flooded roads.
After the hail stops
If there’s a power outage, turn off electronics and appliances to avoid damage from a power surge.
Use a flashlight instead of candles, which can be a fire hazard.
Turn off valves, if you detect any gas leaks.
Clean up debris and make any temporary repairs.
If your property is impacted by a hail storm…

Document the damage as soon as possible.
Take photos or make a video.
Keep records for clean-up costs complete and available to help simplify your insurance claims experience.
For all Home claims, you can make a claim through The Co-operators app, available through The App Store and Google Play. 
You can also call or visit your Financial Advisor or call 1-877-NU CLAIM. In Quebec, call 1-877-594-2667.